[ZT] Access SCIM: Azure AD and Okta (#7105)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/azuread.md

When [SCIM synchronization is enabled](#synchronize-users-and-groups), the Azure group names will appear in the **Values** dropdown when you choose the _Azure Groups_ selector.

![Azure group names displayed in the Access policy builder](/cloudflare-one/static/documentation/identity/azure/azure-scim-groups.png)

{{<Aside type="note">}}
The Gateway policy builder does not currently show group names from the SCIM integration. To use an Azure group in a Gateway policy, you still need to [manually enter](#manual-entry) the group's `Object Id`.
{{</Aside>}}

### Manual entry

You can create Access and Gateway policies for groups that are not synchronized with SCIM. Azure AD exposes directory groups in a format that consists of random strings, the `Object Id`, that is distinct from the `Name`.

1. Make sure you enable **Support groups** as you set up Azure AD on your Zero Trust dashboard.

2. On your Azure dashboard, note the `Object Id` for the Azure group. In the example below, the group named Admins has an ID of `61503835-b6fe-4630-af88-de551dd59a2`.

    ![Viewing the Azure group ID on the Azure dashboard](/cloudflare-one/static/documentation/identity/azure/object-id.png)

> 3. When you create an Access or Gateway policy for an Azure group, you will be prompted to enter the **Azure group ID**. Enter the `Object Id` for the Azure group.

Author: ```suggestion
3. If building an Access policy, choose the _Azure Groups_ selector. If building a Gateway policy, choose the _User Group IDs_ selector.

 4. In the **Value** field, enter the `Object Id` for the Azure group.
```

9. Next, return to the Azure Active Directory menu and go to **App registrations**.

10. Select the app you just created. Copy the **Application (client) ID** and **Directory (tenant) ID**.

    ![Viewing the Application ID and Directory ID in Azure](/cloudflare-one/static/documentation/identity/azure/azure-values.png)

11. Navigate to **Certificates & secrets** and select **New client secret**.

12. Name the client secret and choose an expiration period.

13. After the client secret is created, copy its **Value** field. Store the client secret in a safe place, as it can only be viewed immediately after creation.

    ![Location of client secret in Azure](/cloudflare-one/static/documentation/identity/azure/client-cert-value.png)

### 2. Configure API permissions in Azure

1. In Azure Active Directory, navigate to **API permissions** and select **Add a permission**.

2. Select **Microsoft Graph**.

3. Select **Delegated permissions** and enable the following [permissions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/permissions-reference):

    - `email`
    - `offline_access`
    - `openid`
    - `profile`
    - `User.Read`
    - `Directory.Read.All`
    - `GroupMember.Read.All`
    

> Note: More narrow permissions may be used, however this is the set of permissions that are tested against regularly.

Author: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}}
More narrow permissions may be used, however this is the set of permissions that are tested and supported by Cloudflare.
{{</Aside>}}
```

2. Under **Login methods**, select **Add new**.

3. Select **Azure AD**.

4. Enter the **Application (client) ID**, **Client secret**, and **Directory (tenant) ID** obtained from the Azure dashboard.

5. (Optional) Enable [Proof of Key Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/). PKCE will be performed on all login attempts.

6. (Optional) If you are using Azure AD groups, enable **Support Groups**.

7. Select **Save**.

To [test](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/#test-idps-on-the-zero-trust-dashboard) that your connection is working, select **Test**.

## Synchronize users and groups

The Azure AD integration supports the [System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7642.txt) protocol. With SCIM, Cloudflare Access can automatically deprovision users after they are deactivated in the identity provider and display synchronized group names in the Access policy builder.

To synchronize users and groups between Access and Azure:

### 1. Enable SCIM on the Zero Trust dashboard

{{<render file="_enable-scim-on-dashboard.md">}}

### 2. Configure SCIM in Azure

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Until Microsoft supports out-of-the-box provisioning for Access, SCIM requires a separate enterprise application from the one created during [initial setup](#set-up-azure-ad-as-an-identity-provider).

Reviewer: @ranbel I don't think this is necessary or we should reword it. My vote would be to delete or remove the first clause of the sentence. Just call out that we require a second app. Don't want to throw it back onto MSFT for support.

> Until Microsoft supports out-of-the-box provisioning for Access, SCIM requires a separate enterprise application from the one created during [initial setup](#set-up-azure-ad-as-an-identity-provider).

Author: ```suggestion
SCIM requires a separate enterprise application from the one created during [initial setup](#set-up-azure-ad-as-an-identity-provider).
```
